The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Epidemics of the Middle Ages
    
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Epidemics of the Middle Ages

Author: J. F. C. Hecker
        John Caius

Translator: B. G. Babington


        
Release date: September 19, 2020 [eBook #63232]

Language: English

Other information and formats: www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/63232

Credits: Produced by Turgut Dincer, Robert Tonsing, Linda Cantoni
        and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
        https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
        generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE EPIDEMICS OF THE MIDDLE AGES ***




Produced by Turgut Dincer, Robert Tonsing, Linda Cantoni
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Internet Archive)









                                  THE
                               EPIDEMICS
                                  OF
                           THE MIDDLE AGES.


                          FROM THE GERMAN OF
                         J. F. C. HECKER, M.D.

        PROFESSOR AT FREDERICK WILLIAM’S UNIVERSITY AT BERLIN,
              AND MEMBER OF VARIOUS LEARNED SOCIETIES IN
  ALBANY, BERLIN, BONN, COPENHAGEN, DIJON, DRESDEN, ERLANGEN, HANAU,
     HEIDELBERG, LEIPZIG, LONDON, LYONS, MARSEILLES, METZ, NAPLES,
             NEW YORK, OFFENBURG, PHILADELPHIA, STOCKHOLM,
                     TOULOUSE, WARSAW AND ZURICH.


                             TRANSLATED BY
                     B. G. BABINGTON, M.D. F.R.S.,
                                 ETC.

                                LONDON
                               MDCCCXLIV

                                LONDON:
                       GEORGE WOODFALL AND SON,
                      ANGEL COURT, SKINNER STREET




                           GENERAL PREFACE.


The Council of the SYDENHAM SOCIETY having deemed Hecker’s three
treatises on different Epidemics occurring in the Middle Ages worthy
of being collected into a volume, and laid before its members in an
English dress, I have felt much pleasure in presenting them with the
copyright of the Black Death; in negociating for them, the purchase
of that of the Dancing Mania, whereof I could resign only my share of
a joint interest; and, in preparing for the press these productions,
together with a translation, now for the first time made public, of the
Sweating Sickness. This last work, from its greater length, and from
the immediate relation of its chief subject to our own country, may be
considered the most interesting and important of the series.

Professor Hecker is generally acknowledged to be the most learned
medical historian, and one of the most able medical writers in Germany.
His numerous works suffice to show not only with what zeal he has
laboured, but also how highly his labours have been appreciated by his
countrymen; and when I state that, with one trifling exception, they
have all been translated into other languages, I furnish a fair proof
of the estimation in which they are held in foreign countries; and,
so far at least as regards the originals, a full justification of the
Council of the Sydenham Society in their choice on the present occasion.

The “Schwarze Tod,” or “Black Death,” was published in 1832; and I
was prompted to undertake its translation, from a belief that it
would prove interesting at a moment when another fearful epidemic, the
Cholera, with which it admitted of comparison in several particulars,
was fresh in the memory of men. The “Tanzwuth,” or “Dancing Mania,”
came out shortly afterwards; and, as it appeared to me that, though
relating to a less terrific visitation, it possessed an equal share of
interest, and, holding a kind of middle place between a physical and a
moral pestilence, furnished subject of contemplation for the general
as well as the professional reader, I determined on adding it also to
our common stock of medical literature. When the “Englische Schweiss,”
or “Sweating Sickness,” which contained much collateral matter little
known in England, and which completed the history of the principal
epidemics of the middle ages, appeared in 1834, I proceeded to finish
my task; but failing in the accomplishment of certain arrangements
connected with its publication, I laid aside my translation for the
time under a hope, which has at length been fulfilled, that at some
future more auspicious moment, it might yet see the light.

It must not be supposed that the author, in thus taking up the history
of three of the most important epidemics of the middle ages, although
he has illustrated them by less detailed notices of several others,
considers that he has exhausted his subject; on the contrary, it is his
belief, that, in order to come at the secret springs of these general
morbific influences, a most minute as well as a most extended survey
of them, such as can be made only by the united efforts of many, is
required. He would seem to aim at collecting together such a number of
facts from the medical history of all countries and of all ages, as may
at length enable us to deal with epidemics in the same way as Louis has
dealt with individual diseases; and thus by a numerical arrangement of
data, together with a just consideration of their relative value, to
arrive at the discovery of general laws. The present work, therefore,
is but one stone of an edifice, for the construction of which he
invites medical men in all parts of the world to furnish materials[1].

Whether the information which could be collected even by the most
diligent and extensive research would prove sufficiently copious and
accurate to enable us to pursue this method with complete success,
may be a matter of doubt; but it is at least probable, that many
valuable facts, now buried in oblivion, would thus be brought to
light; and the incidental results, as often occurs in the pursuit of
science, might prove as serviceable as those which were the direct
object of discovery. Of what immense importance, for instance, in the
fourteenth century, would a general knowledge have been of the simple
but universal circumstance, that in all severe epidemics, from the
time of Thucydides[2] to the present day, a false suspicion has been
entertained by the vulgar, that the springs or provisions have been
poisoned, or the air infected by some supposed enemies to the common
weal. How many thousands of innocent lives would thus have been spared,
which were barbarously sacrificed under this absurd notion?

Whether Hecker’s call for aid in his undertaking has, in any instance,
been answered by the physicians of Germany, I know not; but he will
be as much pleased to learn, as I am to inform him, that it was
the perusal of the “Black Death” which suggested to Dr. Simpson of
Edinburgh the idea of collecting materials for a history of the
Leprosy, as it existed in Great Britain during the middle ages; and
that this author’s very learned and interesting antiquarian researches
on that subject, as published in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical
Journal, have been the valuable, and, I trust, will not prove the
solitary result.

As the three treatises, now comprised for the first time under the
title of “The Epidemics of the Middle Ages,” came out at different
periods, I have thought it best to prefix to each the original preface
of the author; and to the two which have already been published in
English, that of the translator also; while Hecker’s Address to the
Physicians of Germany, although written before the publication of the
“Englische Schweiss,” forms an appropriate substitute for an author’s
general preface to the whole volume.

At the end of the “Black Death,” I had originally given, as No. III.
of the Appendix, some copious extracts from Caius’ “Boke or Counseill
against the Disease commonly called the Sweate or Sweatyng Sicknesse;”
but this little treatise is so characteristic of the times in which
it was written, so curious, so short, and so very scarce[3], that I
have thought it worth while, with the permission of the council of our
Society, to reprint it entire, and to add it in its more appropriate
place, as an Appendix to the Sweating Sickness.




                                ADDRESS
                                TO THE
                        PHYSICIANS OF GERMANY.
                          BY J. F. C. HECKER.


It has long been my earnest desire to address my honoured colleagues,
especially those with whom I feel myself connected by congeniality
of sentiment, in order to impress on them a subject in which science
is deeply interested, and which, according to the direct evidence
of Nature herself, is one of the most exalted and important that
can be submitted to the researches of the learned. I allude to the
